
	 			  VariCW SPECIFICATION


- Has three operating modes

	1. Basic mode flags the user if errors are detected and allows the user to request retransmission of the message if desired. 

	3. Auto mode automatically request retransmission when an error is detected.

	4. "Last ditch" mode can be invoked after a poor link quality message is displayed. Retransmission requests will continue until 1 element time has exceeded 1 second then "link lost" message will be sent out stdout.

	5. The user may change modes after the end of each transmission.



- Uses modified DFCW (Dual Frequency CW)

	1. Center frequency, i.e. carrier, is on for 1 element time    between characters and 3 element times for SPACE character.

	2. Dots are shifted 25 hertz below the carrier and remain on    til all dots have been sent.

	3. Dashes are shifted 25 hertz above the carrier and remain on til all dashes have been sent.

	4. International Morse Code will be used to encode characters. Some special characters and controls differ. See Character set below.

	5. Element time varies with link quality. The poorer the link, indicated by mismatched CRC's, the longer the element time becomes.

	6. After a retransmission requests has been made a "adjusting speed" message will be sent to stdout. 

	7. In manual mode the user can continue to retry or discontinue the contact. If 1 element time exceeds 1 second "link lost" is sent to stdout. However, the user may continue to try to establish the link but the 1 second element time will remain the same.

	8. In automatic mode the retries will continue until contact is re-established or the 1 element time has exceeded 1 second. If 1 second element time is reached "link lost" message is sent to stdout and the retries will stop.



- Each message has header and footer made up of CRC sum

	1. A sum of CRC's for the message is sent at the beginning of each message for link quality calculations.

	2. Hexidecimal EA is used to seed with the first character of the message. The resulting number is then used as seed for the next character so on and so on each succeeding character	   until either the end of the message.

	3. A message will contain the entire message until the end of transmission flag is set.


	4. CRC will be sent as 4 hex digits to assure that there will not be two different messages with the same CRC.



- Speed varies based on link quality calculation

	1. When as message is received the CRC is calculated. Once the message is complete the transmitted and the calculated CRCs are compaired. If CRCs are the same the message is consided error free. If an error is detected (CRC's don't match), it is handled according to the current operating mode. A "link error" message is sent to stdout.

	2. If retransmission is requested, the element time is reduced 10% from the previous transmission and the message is resent. This means that the transmission speed for each message must be saved at both the transmitting end and the receiving end. 

	3. In automode if three messages are sent without out error the transmission speed is increased by 5%, ie the element time is shortened, for each new message until errors are detected. The transmission speed will then be reduced by 10% and the transmission speed will remain the same for the next 10 messages before an attempt to increase transmission speed will begin again. If errors are detected during the 10 message, the 10 message counter is reset to 0 and the count is resumed after an error free link has been established.

	4. The first transmission in a QSO will begin at a speed 	   of 0.1 second per element time or 600 elements per minute. Transmission speed will then increase or decrease based on link quality as described above.



- Frame definition 

	BOT:		2 second carrier followed by BOT 
	BOM:		begin message	'-...--' 
	text:		message body
     checksum:	CRC sum 
	EOT:		EOT character followed by 2 second carrier



- Request for retransmission protocol 

	1. Receiving station sends BOT|BOM|RETRANSMIT|CRC|EOT| with speed 10% slower then the speed of the transmission just 	   received with errors. 

	2. Transmitting station will resend same message 10% slower then the previous transmission matching the resend request's speed.

	3. If the resend request fails to be heard by the transmitting station, another request is sent 10% slower then the    previous resend request. This will continue until the element time is 1 second long. Also see Uses modified DFCW sections 7 & 8 for more details.

	4. The transmitting station will maintain the last transmitted frame until the operator of the transmitting station intitates a new message.


- Tone protocol

	1. A dot or a dash has the same element time (length).

	2. Multiple dots or dashes are determined by how long the tone is shifted below or above the carrier. 
Example: For the letter z, the tone would be shifted above the carrier for 2 element times then immediately shifted below the carrier for 2 element times then returned to the carrier frequency for at least one element time if a letter follows z. If z is the last letter in a word then SPACE will follow.
NOTE: Letter z is dash dash dot dot.

	3. End of word character is 3 element times (SPACE).

	4. The carrier tone will be 1200 Hz. A dot tone will be 1175 Hz while a dash tone will be 1225 Hz.

	

- Incoming message protocol

	1. After BOT and BOM have been detected they will be sent to stdout message window as well as each character of the message including the CRC and EOT characters.

	Example: <BOT><BOM>This is a test message.<01A7><EOT>

	2. The result of the CRCs comparison is sent to stdout in a link quality window.


- Outgoing message protocol

	1. Outgoing message will begin when the "send button" is 	        	   activated.

	2. Transmission will continue until "end button" is activated.

	3. Outgoing message may be composed before transmission begins and during transmission.

	4. A "dead man" timer will automatically end transmission if no new character are input to the transmit buffer after a period of 5 minutes.



- Character set

Character	Code	
A		и-				
B		-иии					
C		-и-и				
D		-ии			
E		и				
F		ии-и				
G		--и				
H		ииии				
I		ии				
J		и---	
K		-и-	
L		и-ии		
M		--		
N		-и	
O		---	
P		и--и	
Q		--и-	
R		и-и	
S		иии
T		-
U		ии-
V		иии-	
W		и--	
X		-ии-	
Y		-и--	
Z		--ии	

0		-----
1		и----						
2		ии---
3		иии--
4		ииии-
5		иииии
6		-ииии
7		--иии
8		---ии
9		----и

:		---иии
.		и-и-и-
,		--ии--		
?		ии--ии		
' (single quote)и----и		
!		-и-и--		
/		-ии-и		
(		-и--и		
)		-и--и-		
&		и-иии		
;		-и-и-и
=		-иии-
+		и-и-и
- (dash/minus)	-ииии-
_ (underscore)	ии--и-
" (double quote)и-ии-и
$		иии-ии-
@		и--и-и

SPACE		 3 ELEMENT TIMES

BOT		etetetet (pseudo clock)
                       _____
EOT		.----.---- (eoteot)
                   __
BOM		-...-- (bm)
                   __
EOM		--...- (gu)
                                ___ ___
RETRANSMIT	.--..-.SPACE.--..-. (agn agn)




